# Turing Machine

In order to get a grip on how computers "think", let's begin with the simplest version of a computer: The Turing Machine. Turing Machine is a model for describing how computers work.

The inventor of the Turing Machine belived that all computational problems can be broken down into a ver simple language: digital language of 0 and 1. This can be thought of in terms of 2 states such as:
 - On and Off
 - true and false
 - in and out
 - yes and no

Computers are practically very complex Turing Machines. Now, suppose we two light switches all working together and when used in various combinations, produce different coloured lights.

0 - Off
1 - On

| Switch 1      | Switch 2      |
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| 0             | 0             |
| 0             | 1             |
| 1             | o             |
| 1             | 1             |


If each combination "turns on" a different color, we can now have three different color lights using just two switches (when both switches are off the light is off). For example:


| Switch 1      | Switch 2      |  Colour     |                    
| ------------- |:-------------:| ------------|                                         
| 0             | 0             |  Off        |                          
| 0             | 1             |  Red        |                     
| 1             | o             |  Green      |                    
| 1             | 1             |  Blue       |                          

Adding more swithces will allow us create more colors, and that is the logic of the Turing discovered. Using simple digital language to create complex combinations for different representations.



# Bits and Bytes

The Turing Machine uses 0 and 1 to create On and Off model, in computer science this is referred to as "binary" model. Meaning 0 and 1 are a pair of digits or a "binary digit". This is shortened to "bit". A bit is the two states 0 and 1 and the basic unit of the binary system computers use.

From the previous table which is shown below again:



| Switch 2      |  Colour     |                    
| ------------- |:-------------:| ------------|                                         
| 0             | 0             |  Off        |                          
| 0             | 1             |  Red        |                     
| 1             | o             |  Green      |                    
| 1             | 1             |  Blue       | 

The above is a two bit system, meaning there are two binary states working together to form four different combinations of colored lights.

Moder day computers make use of 8-bits in combitnation to form the fundamental unit of digital information. This unit is called a **byte**.


The first modern computers had a byte with its bits in different combitnations so as to represent a single character. Here is the byte representation of the letter "A" :


| Bit 1 | Bit 2 | Bit 3 | Bit 4 | Bit 5 | Bit 6 | Bit 7 | Bit 8 | Letter |
|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|--------|
| 0     | 1     | 0     | 0     | 0     | 0     | 0     | 1     | A      |


Process:

User presses "A" on keyboard --> Keyboard sends signal to processor --> processor translates signal into byte representation above --> CPU sends another signal to the screen that draws the letters "A".













