# Turing Machine

In order to get a grip on how computers "think", let's begin with the simplest version of a computer: The Turing Machine. Turing Machine is a model for describing how computers work.

The inventor of the Turing Machine belived that all computational problems can be broken down into a ver simple language: digital language of 0 and 1. This can be thought of in terms of 2 states such as:
 - On and Off
 - true and false
 - in and out
 - yes and no

Computers are practically very complex Turing Machines. Now, suppose we two light switches all working together and when used in various combinations, produce different coloured lights.

0 - Off
1 - On

| Switch 1      | Switch 2      |
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| 0             | 0             |
| 0             | 1             |
| 1             | o             |
| 1             | 1             |


If each combination "turns on" a different color, we can now have three different color lights using just two switches (when both switches are off the light is off). For example:


| Switch 1      | Switch 2      |  Colour     |                    
| ------------- |:-------------:| ------------|                                         
| 0             | 0             |  Off        |                          
| 0             | 1             |  Red        |                     
| 1             | o             |  Green      |                    
| 1             | 1             |  Blue       |                          

Adding more swithces will allow us create more colors, and that is the logic of the Turing discovered. Using simple digital language to create complex combinations for different representations.



# Bits and Bytes

The Turing Machine uses 0 and 1 to create On and Off model, in computer science this is referred to as "binary" model. Meaning 0 and 1 are a pair of digits or a "binary digit". This is shortened to "bit". A bit is the two states 0 and 1 and the basic unit of the binary system computers use.

From the previous table which is shown below again:



| Switch 1      |  Switch 2   | Color       |           
| ------------- |:------------| ------------|                                         
| 0             | 0           |  Off        |                          
| 0             | 1           |  Red        |                     
| 1             | o           |  Green      |                    
| 1             | 1           |  Blue       | 

The above is a two bit system, meaning there are two binary states working together to form four different combinations of colored lights.

Moder day computers make use of 8-bits in combitnation to form the fundamental unit of digital information. This unit is called a **byte**.


The first modern computers had a byte with its bits in different combitnations so as to represent a single character. Here is the byte representation of the letter "A" :


| Bit 1 | Bit 2 | Bit 3 | Bit 4 | Bit 5 | Bit 6 | Bit 7 | Bit 8 | Letter |
|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|--------|
| 0     | 1     | 0     | 0     | 0     | 0     | 0     | 1     | A      |


Process:

User presses "A" on keyboard --> Keyboard sends signal to processor --> processor translates signal into byte representation above --> CPU sends another signal to the screen that draws the letters "A".



# Algorithm

One Yuval Noah Harari defines Algorithm as "a methodical set of steps that can be used to make calculations, resolve problems and make decisions. An Algorithm is a particular calculation, but the method followed to when making the calculation." Others say an algorithm is a recipe.

Logic follows algorithm model by describing a consistent way in which ideas relate to one another.


# Logic and Computer Science

Logic is a science that analyzes concepts and ideas and attempts to provide rules for ordered thinking and find fallacies for improper thinking. Computers make use of programs to produce some form of output like images, text or sound, so how are these 2 related? Consider the followinf pseudo-code:

```
for (x=0; x < 7 ; x++) {
	If x is even The
		print "Eat pasta tonight"
	Else
		print "Take your greens tonight"
}

```











